So as as long as you do that,
that's OK. But then I mean the
type of the argument, the name
of the functions and, etc. These
are all, I mean, uh, your
choice. Yes, yeah you can do
that. But please do not put
all for instance, all the.
Functionality is in just one single file for this week's lab.
Actually I ask you to create
header files, source files and
then add them to your main file
so you have to follow this
pattern, but as long as you do
this, the name of functions or
the name of even the name of
files. So if the name of files it's it's an option for
you, but again, you have to
follow the pattern.
Hisham diamond hands.
Thank you Hisham. So I'll wait for one or two minutes to for other
student to join the class and
will start very soon.
OK.
So basically the last lecture we
end up with a NAND gate.
Uh, we're gonna do a quick
recap. On the NAND gate and
then. We continue with
yeah from here.
So Meanwhile, if you have
any question, I have to take
your questions.
Uh, which is the name of the files don't matter
then why are we graded on file names
Oh no, I mean the name
of the file, I mean.
The name of Header files
Uh, the header files and for instance your main file is still
in dot CPP or main dot C, But if
you see the manual for this
week's lab, for instance, I ask
you to put over the.
Functions related to do
complements in a file called
complement dot C or complement
dot H. Uh, you could say that I
can put for instance, another
name, complement, underlying tools or comp dot C or as long
as the name of the file is
meaningful and tells us that
what are the functions in that
file. That's OK, yeah, but the
name of the zip file or the name
of the report file or the name
of the snapshot file that you
have to follow that pattern? I
mean. Comp 2650 underline the
lab number an underline your
user ID. That's the pattern, and
you have to follow that.
But the name of the header
files or the source files, the
name of the functions. These
are just an option for you.
But I mean.
If you follow the exact name then the marker can mark it
without any. I mean ambiguity.
But yes, I mean, it doesn't mean
that if you change the.
Name of the file.
Your program actually is
not acceptable.
But yes, yeah.
The name of the submission
and the name of the report.
There they should be the
exact pattern, but the name
of header files or whatever
you want to use in your
program. It's up to you.
Yeah.
So let's start uh today
gonna be an amazing day and
the reason is that, uh.
Uh, we said that.
When we know the fundamental
gates such as and or.
And not gate. We can build a
larger units by these
fundamental gates. But before
building or designing the
larger gates at the easier
task is that somebody design
is circuit for us or this
design a digital unit for us
and ask us to check the
functionality.
This is called analysis, so we
start with the easier task which
is analysis. In the analysis, we
are given a digital unit, for
instance here. Somebody gave us
this. Talk to us.
And we have to check what is the
functionality. Or sometimes they
say that this is the
functionality and this is the
design check. This functionality
is correct. So we said that I
mean and and followed by the
not. The behavior is exactly the
not of the end.
So basically, whatever at the
end gate output one here at 0.
And, uh.
For the end, whatever ends at 0.
A For this gate because it follows by did not. It
outputs one and whatever the
end at one the this digit
units digital unit output 0.
So we call this an not and or
NAND and simply. We could reduce
this design by this design and
now with two inputs.
He said that, uh, another
shorter form to show the NAND
gate is this as an operator. If
you want to write it down, you
can say that XN&Y or X&Y not.
Uh, in the next few slides we
see that we preferred this
notation than this notation, and
you'll see now.
So, but remember the behavior
of this unit. If you have at
least 1 zero in the input,
the output going to be one if
all the inputs are one, the
output gonna be 0.
So again, I mean you can ask
yourself that what happens if
one of the input is 0, so should
I wait for other outputs? Or no?
We can directly come up with the
result. So if one of the input
is 0, because this is the end,
so you don't have to wait for
other outputs for other
inputs. So zero makes the end
zero and then not becomes one.
So if you have at least 1
zero, you can simply go to the
output an output one.
Uh, because we have an end here,
followed by now. If one of the
input is 1 and you don't know
the other values, the values of
the other inputs you have to
wait because one for the end
doesn't have an impact. So you
have to see what are the values
for other inputs to see what's
going to be the output.
Uh, we said that the NAND is
commutative and this is
because we can say that X&Y or
wine and X and this is because
of the commutative property of
the Ant. In the end, we can
switch the inputs.
And another interesting.
Findings of NAND is this. If we
input the NAND with single
binary variable in both parts.
X. Goes to the both input of
the and followed by the nuts. So
basically what it does is that
X&X is X followed by did not
become export. So X&X followed
by the nut.
It is exactly the same as not
gate, so as I said before, if
you don't find not getting the
market, you can buy a NAND gate
and then input both inputs with
one binary variable to generate
the not gate.
So XX not X and X is equal to X not or X'
We end we ended here so now we
want to see that. Is it possible
to. Extend this digital unit
to have three inputs. We
already did that for the And & or And We said
that it is possible to do
that and actually in the
market we have and with three
input and with four inputs
and the nice property of the
end and or is that they are
associated with, meaning that
the order of the input
doesn't matter. So that's why
we can have and and all with
three or four inputs.
But let's see whether we have
the net with free input or not.
So this is now with two
input and now we're not
built with three inputs.
So based on the truth table,
what would be the behavior of
the NAND with three input? We
expect that NAND with three
input is an ad with three input
followed by the nuts. So
basically and of 300 variables
followed by do not.
XYZ and then we end them
together and then not at the
end. So as I said, if you have
at least 1 zero input, the
output going to be one if all
the inputs are one, the output
going to be 0.
So you can follow the same
behavior for NAND with four
inputs, 5 inputs an attacher.
But this design this behavior.
Let's see what's going on with
this behavior. If you wanna use.
This one then, and with
two input.
So we already saw how we built
the and with free food or how we
build all with the input. Are
you stacking the gates with two
inputs? So let's do the same
thing and. So if you have X NAND
with Y. And then finally NAND
with Z&F. Let's see, this design
is correct or not.
So again, I mean somebody said that I designed the NAND with
three inputs and let's analyze
that and let's see this is.
Uh, this design have
the behavior of this
truth table or not?
So if you follow the first
output of the, the output of the
first man. The first man says
that XY followed by did not.
So this is now between X&Y, so
if we just consider X&Y. So for
the first row it outputs one second row output 1 3 as well
because we have at least 1 zero
in X or Y.
But X&Y is both one, it
becomes zero for the F1,
the first output.
So if you follow for the other
rows. So here again we have 00
output, 101 at 1101110. This is
the. These are the output of the
1st. Now F1.
So this F1 gone and and with Z.
To output the final F. So here
is the I mean a written form of
the OUTPUT, so F is F1 and with Z followed by the nots for X and
with Y, not and then and with Z followed by the not
So if you calculate the value of
the last column, so this is F1
and this is Z, so zero and with
one becomes zero followed by the
not becomes one.
Also, here zero and one is
1. So up until here everything
is OK. But here we'll
see, uh, I mean, zero.
000 and becomes zero followed by
did not become one.
However, when you see here, it
becomes one and with one.
Followed by the not,
which becomes 0.
However, if you compared this
role with the behavior we asked.
Here. You said that X up
as if at least one of
the inputs are zero. The
output cannot be one.
But here we see that.
We have at least
we have two zeros.
In the inputs.
But finally we have
zero in the output.
So what it basically says
that it says that the way
this is an works is not
the way we want to work.
So these are the entries that we
want to add to, but this design
app with zero. The last one
we want to output 0, but
this is an output one.
So we did the analysis. We check
the behavior and we see that for
some rows we expect to output
one, but design output 0.
So when we are.
Let me. So we we basically
says that this design is not
working properly or it's not
effective. When we say that
it's not effective means that
the design is not following
our desired functionality.
So if you want to fix this
design, we said that based on
the idea of NAND followed by the
nut, you could say that NAND
with three input would be in and
with three input followed by the
nuts. So we could say that NAND
is with. The input is not of
free input and.
So and we said, we could say
that the correct design is this.
And with free input
followed by do not.
So if you check the
functionality or analysis
of this design, you see
that this design outputs
the correct values.
This is not the expected values
and these are the output values,
so you see that for the same
input they output the same.
So we say that this design now
is correct. An following our own
arm. I mean this functionality.
And the nice property of this
design is that because and has
the associative property,
meaning that the order of the
input doesn't matter.
We can use the same phone at
this design of NAND, meaning
that for the NAND the inputs
doesn't matter. The order of the
input doesn't matter.
So this viewpoint to dinner with
three input is just another
three input, followed by the
not. Not with four inputs. The
view this the correct is this.
And and and and with four input
followed by the nut instead of
just attaching or stacking NAND
with two inputs.
So in summary, so given
two designs. And we already
we are given the desired
functionality. After the
analysis we said that F1 is
not the part that we expect.
So we said that the first
design is not effective.
Because we want to output X&Y&Z
followed by the nut, but F1
doesn't output that for
different value of the inputs.
However, F2 follows exactly the
same functionality that we
wanted, so the first one is the
F2. This design is effective.
So when it design is not
effective, meaning that if the
design is not correct, we don't
check the other things so you
remember when we design the end
with three input or and with
four input, we had two different
designs. Both were effective
in the both were correct. We
check if efficiency or cost
of the designs, but when we
see that the design is not
correct at all, we don't go
to the other steps because.
Uh, the design is incorrect. I
mean whether they design is cost
benefit effective or whether the
design is fast. But because the
apples are not correct, we say
that this design is not.
Valid.
So we go to the
efficiency check and cost
effective check after the
we checking the
effectiveness of the
design. After checking
the design is correct.
So what if somebody says
that OK?
I now know that, uh, the NAND with THREE  input not this.
So what is this? Sometimes I
mean somebody asked that. So
what is this? You could say that
this is X9Y.
And then and with Z.
So this is not not with three
input, this is. Two nands following each other.
And this design is not a good
design. I mean not that I mean
famous or very common design.
Uh, because it doesn't have a
nice. Property of the
associativity.
Associativity said that.
We can switch the inputs for instance in AND with three input
or or with three input we could
switch the input. And but here
you cannot switch the input.
If you apply first, then add an
excellent buy and then on the.
And check the output with when
you do the NAND first on Y&Z and
then Onyx. Basically if you
switch the X with Z.
The output of earth gonna be
different. So this is left as
an elector assignment for this
week. So basically you have to
create the truth table one color
or the is.
Situation another column for. If
you do the Nana first on Y&Z and
then buy eggs and check whether
for the same input they add to
the same values or not.
So if you check that you'll see
that they are not equal.
So as a result, we could say
that they are associated.
So basically this is just for
the sake of analysis, so never
in the novel never. I mean
very rarely in the digital
design or in digital circuits
you see this design.
Because we usually want the
design it get to be associative.
So as a result, whenever you see
somebody says that NAND with
three input, they mean this one
and end with no, not.
So I can any questions so far,
why are we getting different
results even though the design
is very similar?
In in this one, yes.
Uh, although the design is
very similar if you check as
a lecturer summer, you can
check that.
Or let me go here.
Yeah.
This is because of this, because
the first inputs for the second
level has it not.
So very simple. If you check the
output of F1.
None with Z.
So this is F1 and with Z
followed by the nuts.
So which is this one? So
basically, if you check
the values for these rows
or they are different.
So because of this.
Because of this, the
result is different.
Although it's very similar to
the angle three input, but you
cannot do the same with Dean and
so that's why you always have to
check the the design.
So we can see another one here.
So then another practice.
Again, we are given a digital
unit here. Or digital circuit
or digital unit?
Now we have an order first,
followed by the nuts.
So we are asked to.
Check this behavior so the idea
is that is it possible to have
a. Let's let's check what
the functionality.
So again, for checking for
analysis, you have to see what
are the inputs, what are the
outputs and based on different
values of put what are going to
be the values of Apple.
So basically you have to form
the truth table. The left
side of the truth table have
the input variables, binary
variables. The rights are
going to have the output
variables or Boolean function
or Boolean variables.
So and then you have to check if
the inputs are 00, what is going
to be the airport 0110 and one?
So you have to breakdown
the design into different
levels of output.
The first gate, then the
second gate. Here is the
result of the first gate.
Uh, so X or Y?
So we already know that for
X or Y, if we have at least
one digital one in the
input, the output gonna be
one if all the inputs are
zero, the output kind of 0.
This is the output of all
here, but this output follows
by the nuts. So it means that
we have to do another not on
top of these values. So not of
0 comes one, not a one becomes
zero and attach.
So this is the result of an
order followed by the nut.
As you check the behavior.
Indeed, in this design, if all
the inputs are zero, the output
gonna be one if we have at least
one digital one in the input,
output cannot be.
Zero, so this is exactly the not behavior of a or.
So basically an or followed by
the not. That's why we call it
not or or not.
So this is the new gate. If you
go to the market, you can buy an
OR gate inside an OR gate is an
or followed by the nut or this
is the inversion bubble.
Also for the North, please show
it as a downward arrow. So for
the NAND or not and we have up.
Uh, what are offered in or we
have down water?
So basically an old
followed by the nuts.
And because of the commutative
property of or if you switch the
input of the North.
It doesn't matter because either
you do X nor Y, or Y
nor X, because it means that X
or Y and we could switch the
input of or gate, meaning that
we can do XYXY or X followed
by the not so as a result
Norgate also is commutative.
It doesn't matter. I mean,
in what input of the Norgate
you input your binary value
or binary input.
So my question for me is this.
We already checked this for NAND
for the NAND gate. If we said, I
mean if we input.
Only one binary variable to both
input, often at it, it creates a
not gate. So what would be
the behavior if we do the
same with the Norgate?
So anybody? Or if so, give
us this design and ask that
what's the behavior? So it
basically asks what's the
behavior of F or what is the app
top F based on the input of X?
Anybody?
Tiana yes, Correct Explorer
Explorer, correct. Yes, your
thing is you have to. This is
the normal analysis so you have
to form the truth table.
And then you have to in the left
side of the truth table what is
going to be the input variables
X. The right side gonna be the
output in the left side. You
have to put all the combinations
or possibilities for the input.
We have just only one binary
variable, zero or one. So based
on this, so the first input
cannot be. X or X so X or
X is equal to X or zero or zero
becomes zero followed by the not
come zero bar or one.
So the first input is X or X.
If X is zero, becomes zero. If X
is 1, becomes one, and then
final F becomes not of these
values, not up zero becomes one
not of 1 becomes 0. So if X is 0
after this one, if X is one out
of the zero. So this is the
exact behavior of the not so X
or X followed by dinner is equal
to X4 or X not.
So this is another way to build
the North gate. So
whenever you need a nut,
you can build it with
Norgate very similar to
the NAND gate.
Now we want to design with three
inputs for the North.
So the three input for the NOR
is base. Basically means that if
we input three binary variables.
And we want to order them
followed by the nuts. So
basically it says that if all
the inputs are zero, the output
gonna be one because all of the
zeros become zero followed by
the not becomes one.
But if you have at least one
digital one in the input,
because the OR becomes one and
then followed by the number
becomes 0, so all are zero.
So we want to build such a
design. Uh, we want to build
a big digit. The digital
circuit that acts like this
behaves like this.
But if you follow the
same stacking of the
norm with two input.
Like this and or with two inputs
X&X nor Y followed by nor Z. So
let's see. This design is
correct or not.
So again, for the task of
analysis, we formed the truth
table. Left side is the binary
inputs, right side is the Apple.
And then the
immediate intermediate outputs.
So the first one is X nor Y.
X or Y followed by the not.
So if we consider only X&Y.
00100 because the order is 1
followed by the not zero here or
is 1 followed by not zero and
etc. So these are the outputs
of the first North based on the
X&Y. Now these values
gonna be NZ.
So now you consider Z and F1.
So this is basically F1 or Z
followed by the not.
So if you check this was F1 is
one Z0 or becomes one followed
by did not become zero.
So so far it's correct because
all the inputs are zero. The
output this year that's fine.
But let's see the next one.
Is that fine or that's not fine
because we said that based on
this behavior, he said that if
all the inputs are zero, the OR
becomes zero followed by the not
becomes one. But here in the
first row we see that all are
zero. But the output is 0
instead of being one, and this
is because F1 is 1, so one or
with zero becomes one followed
by the nut becomes 0.
So as long as we see one row
that are not according to our
behavior or out to stable.
We said that this design
is not correct.
You could check the other
rows. You see that there are
some differences also, so we
said that this design is not
what we wanted.
Instead, we said that a normal 3
input is basically an all with
three input, followed by do not.
So this is the correct design.
And because over has the
associative property, we can
switch all the inputs.
And if you check the truth table
for. They given through state of
the given behavior and the
actual analysis of this unit.
They are equal in each row.
So whenever you are given a nor
with frame, put there. It is
actually in or with three inputs
followed by did not.
They are not like this.
So again, if you compare this
design and this design and we
are asked to have this
behavior, we could say that F1
is not really correct or
effective or two design.
But after is the design and
we choose F2F2 between
these two designs.
OK, and again, as in this
assignment for this week I asked
you to check the nor is
associative or not.
Basically, if we change the
difference why with Z or X with
Z, the result of this design
changes or not.
And the answer is no, but you
have to prove that by using the
truth table. And
because of this.
This problem that this design
doesn't have the associative
property. That's why we don't
like this design often or with
three inputs. Be like the
previous one, this one.
OK. So let's do a recap.
So these are the gates and in
the right side I my question is
this when the F becomes one.
Because it's very important,
usually in in the positive
logic. By default the values are
all ground or meaning that they
are all zero.
However, at some point we want
to increase the voltage to 1,
meaning that we want to make the
output one. That's very
important in positive logic
design. So that's why we want to
memorize or kind of practice or
master the behavior of the gates
based on the output of these
gates becomes one, not whenever
the input is zero. Output is one
that's trivial and.
Even if you are given 10 inputs,
11 inputs, 20 inputs.
The behavior is this. If
all the inputs are one,
the output going to one.
At least 1 zero makes it 0.
Or if at least one digital one
happens in the input output,
gonna be 1.
So if you're after when or
becomes zero, it means that if
all the inputs are zero, the
output kinda busy.
Ferdinand its behavior is
where did not of the Ant.
So when and become one.
When it becomes one, when the
end output zero. When the end
outputs your win at least one
digit of 0 is in the input, so
now it becomes one when we have
at least one digit of 0 in the
inputs. Because it goes to the
and gate and makes 0 effort by
the not. It makes it one.
For the North, the behavior is
not awful. So when nor
output one.
Whenever the OR output 0. So
when they or out with zero when
all the inputs of all our zero.
So here all the inputs are zero,
they all become zero followed by
the nuts becomes one. So for the
Norgate, if all the input R0
becomes one. So if in
programming or if at some point
you want to check that your
number your binary number is 0,
it means that all the positions
have the digit 0.
So you can use the.
You can use what gate to check
whether your input is 0 or not.
For instance, if you are given a
a number X in programming and
you wanna check that X is 0 or
not. Basically in program you
says X is equal to 0 or not. But
if you use it gate, what would
be the gate to check whether the
input variable is 0, all zero?
What would be your answer?
So let me.
Share my.
Correct, yes. Basically in
programming you said that if
sometimes you definitely you see
this statement. For instance, X
is equal to 0. If something like
this and then do something OK.
So, but if?
You want to use a gate here.
You could simply say that if
nor. Of X.
So this is your research that
you go to the your language
programming language. Once in C
or C++ and C, is there any gate
or is there any operator for Nor? And can you use that
operator to check whether the
variable is zero or zero or not?
And the reason is that using
the gates is much more faster
than using the. For instance
equality operators and etc. So
I'll ask this type of thing
one of the lab assignment in
the next weeks.
I guess one of the weeks one of
the assignment in lab
assignments has this that
instead of just using the
normal. Checking with a
condition in C language, use
the gates to check the value
of the variables.
And the reason is that using the
gates is much more faster than
using the other conditions for
for instance equality or greater
or equal or something like that.
OK, any other questions?
No questions.
So I'm going to.
Open the next slide here.
So before I start again, I wanna
check that everybody has focused
the class because now I'm going
to explain, uh?
What a new topic which is
designed so we know how to
analysis it at all. Sorry we
know how to analyze a digital
circuit. Uh, by creating the
tools table in the outputs,
whether the after correct or
not. But now we want to design.
We are given a question and we
are asked to design A circuit.
So that's why today is an
amazing day. You're gonna design
our first digital units.
So just three students. We have
50 three student in the class.
Thank you.
Thank you Ben awesome.
So thank you.
Great, so let's continue with
the next part.
Which is design so.
In the design.
We are. Are given
a question or the question says
that we want this functionality.
And, uh, use some gates to give
us this functionality. So so
far, for instance, we design the
end with three inputs or not
with three inputs and etc.
I just give you the pattern so
you could ask me that from where
you know that you have to create
an ad like this or from where
you know that you have to create
or with three or with four
inputs like I mean stacking the
OR with two inputs. I would say
that by just I mean chance or by
just trial and error. I tried
different designs and I checked
the I analyze them and then I
saw that this is the correct
design. The way we didn't fit
within an or with the North, we
simply try different design and
we check them and then we see
that one of them is correct.
But The thing is, for
designing a digital circuit,
there is an algorithm.
Basically, there are some steps
that if you follow those steps,
you can end with a design that
is always correct.
So you don't have to just by try
and error at some gauge to each
other and then check analyze
them to whether I mean they are
correct. I mean they are working
right or not. So today I'm going
to introduce this algorithm and
just give you some example, But
this this algorithm if you know
this algorithm, it makes sure
that you know how to design any
digital circuit to answer any
type of questions.
So. Before that I have to
introduce a thing or an entity
called Minterms. So I
intentionally write the meetings
by small letters because later
will see something else that
they are all capital letters.
But Minterms always actually
showed by small letters.
Another name for minterms is standard product and
we'll see why.
So.
If you are given just a single
binary variable. This binary
variable you can pick any name
for that, for instance, XAF
whatever variable name you want
to pick. It's OK, but at the end
of the day, that single binary
variable can have two forms,
either in the normal form.
Or in the complement for.
Complement is another name for
not so binary variable is all
either in the form of.
X or normal or in the form of
nuts or comparable.
So we give each of the forms for
a binary variable and name.
And this name is called
midterms, but midterms follows
within index number.
So this assignment is based on
the fact that if I represent
the binary variable.
With the binary number of the
index, it makes the whole term
one. It's very clear I mean.
So I give M 0.
To the compliment
form of X Explorer.
Big cause if I represent this
binary variable with the binary
number of the index binary
number of the index, here is 0.
So the binary number becomes 0.
Zero followed by the not makes
the whole term 1.
I give EM12X becausw if I
represent eggs with the binary
number of one, it makes the
whole term 1.
Is that clear? So it's very.
It's very simple but very
important. So basically I attach
minterm indices too.
A different form of binary
variables, but this attachment
or this mapping is based on this
fact. The binary representation
of binary number of the index
makes the whole term 1.
So for the single binary
variable, it is very trivial. So
basically whenever you see
export, you could say that this
is M 0 or mid time zero.
Whenever you see X, you can say
that this is M1.
You can replace X with a. For
instance, you can see a. It
is an one or a ball is M 0.
This is very simple.
How about when you are given two
binary variables? If you are
given two binary variables,
an if you are going to make
an end of these two binary
variables, you're gonna have
four different ends.
Either both the binary variables
happens in the company form.
Explore ybor. Or one of them
is in the normal form, the other
one is a compliment for XY bar
or export Y or both of them are
in the normal 4X Y.
So in total, how many and you
gonna have or how many term
you're gonna have based on the
two binary variable you make it
end of them four or two to the
power of 2.
And now if you want to attach or
if you want to give them labels
or give you give them some
names. You give them some mean
terms, but this assignment is
based on whether the binary
number of the indices makes the
whole add one or not.
So for instance, for the first
One X bar Y bar.
I attach M 0 and the
reason is that the binary number
of 042 position becomes 00.
And if I apply nutso 0 not
becomes 10 N becomes one so
and 1 the whole term becomes
one. That's why I attach
M-02X4 wyble.
I attach M3 to X&Y because
if I represent fee with the
binary number it becomes 11.
So 1 one and end
of them be exit 1.
The same is for M1 and
M2. So M2 the binary number
for M2 is 1010.
Here, zero followed by the
nuts becomes one and one
and by one becomes one. So
the whole term becomes one.
So basically you would say that
midterms always create one.
Out of and operator and the
indices shows that what are the
values of the binary variables.
If you are given three binary
variables. So XY and Z or
three positions, and you pick
one alphabet for each
position, so you have free
position and you pick XYZ. You
could pick ABC or whatever.
How many different ends you
gonna have? So each variable
gonna be a form of normal or
complement. Each one have two
possibilities. You have three of
them. It becomes what would be
the answer. How many?
Get back here.
Correct, Tatiana and Nick is
correct, because we have three
binary variables, each one gonna
have normal or complements. So
in total 2 * 2 * 2 It
becomes a different forms.
And these are the eight
different forms. Explore
X'Y'Z' Z'Y'X open till the last at all or in the
normal form XYZ.
And now let's see why we
attached M4 to this.
Turn or to this expression
Boolean expression. The reason
is if you are given three
position. An I represent 4
in binary number in free
position it becomes 100.
Here, zero followed by the knot
becomes one here zero followed
by the knot becomes one and here
is 1. So one and one and one the
whole term becomes one.
So this is the Golden rule. When
you assign me terms to the
Boolean expressions. With and
Any questions so far?
What if there are two
cases which yield?
0.
Uh.
In terms of end of the binary
variables, you wouldn't see any.
Binary Boolean expression that
makes two of them X0.
So for instance,
let me back here.
Here, if you represent the
binary number of the attached
midterms, it always makes the
Boolean expression one.
So you you never see two minterms for one Boolean
expression?
And The thing is that always the minterms makes the Boolean
expression one, so there is
no zero here.
Makes sense, that's an I answer
your question. OK.
So let's move on to the general
case. In general case you gonna
have any positions.
Each position gonna have one
variable name. For instance ABCD
E up to 26 or in general
you have an position A 03182 up
until a N -- 1.
And each one gonna have two
forms, normal and complement,
for so at the end of the day,
you're going to have two to
the power of N different
between them.
The first one is this. All of
them are in the compliment form,
so a 0 bar and with a one bar up
until a an minus one bar.
So N positions or are in the
company before we attach M 0 to
this one because the binary
number of zero when you are
given N positions is basically
putting 0 in all positions.
Followed by nots becomes one and add them together
So at the end of the day,
you're going to have one.
Here this one M the indices is
true to the power of N -- 1.
What is this number?
If you are given an position.
Anybody you remember when we are
given an position? What would be
the largest number or maximum
number? Basically, you put the
largest digit in all positions.
So then it becomes 2 to the
power of N -- 1.
So this number in decimal system
is equal to putting on in all
positions in final system.
So basically it means that all
the positions are one and then
add them together. It becomes
one at the end of the day, so
that's why we attack M2 to the
power of N -- 1 two this time.
So why this attachment? Or why
this labeling the end of the
binary variables to minterms?
You'll see the reason, but
I can say that it gives a
very easy algorithm for us
to design any circuits.
So the next topic is truth
table. So basically whenever
we want to explain what's
going to be the output based
on different value of the
input, we created truth table.
So for instance, here you have a
truth table with only one input
variables X. And you see that
because you have a single binary
variable, either it happens in
the. Zero format, meaning that
it is 0.
Or one? You could say that either it happens with the form
of A compliment or it happens to be in the
form of normal form?
So then you could describe or
explain your behavior your
desired behavior. Imagine you
want to design this function,
meaning that whatever the X is,
I just want to simply output 0.
So you asked to design A circuit
that whatever the binary
variable in the is, I just wanted to output the zero. I
never increase the voltage in the output so this is tthe
constant function for this
function that always output zero
regardless of the value of
input, we do nothing.
That's it. You do nothing, you
just simply output 0.
Basically, we attach the
ground to the output and we
don't look at the input, we
just ignore the input.
Another constant
function is this.
Regardless of the input, we just
simply output one.
So somebody asked us to design A
circuit that always output one.
So again, we don't design
anything, we just simply attach
the voltage plus five voltage to
the output. There is no gate
involved in this design.
Because the input
doesn't matter.
How about this one? So this
one was the one that we
already saw. It's enough. So
basically it says that if you
are receiving an input, make
it and not in the output.
So another way to show this to
people is this in the output.
You could say that export what
was the name of export. You
said that explore when the
export becomes one or when the
F becomes one.
When? What the input is 0 the
output is 1, so zero followed by
dinner. This is exactly the same
as we say that this is N 0.
So I could say that F for this
design equal to N 0.
So the whole story of mid term
is this basically whenever you
want to describe the behavior of
the desired circuit, you
describe it as meters.
You say that I want the output
becomes one. If.
I have M zero in the input. If I
have M1 in the input. If I have
an between the input and etc.
You normally or by standard you
express your output by meters.
I'm meaning that I want
those meetings to make
it make the output one.
So basically F is M 0 because if
you represent zero in the input,
it makes the output one.
Here is the last session.
And this was the nut. So another
way to represent that is M 0.
When you are given only
one paper.
Another function would be this.
Whatever you receive, you just
simply output whatever you see.
So F or FX is at itself, so this
is the identity function in
math. So you could show this
as a midterms.
Uh, the meter for X is an 1.
It says that. If I represent
input with the binary number
one, it makes the output one.
So this is very trivial when we
are given just one binary
variable, but look at the
pattern. So we are going
through. I mean expand this
pattern basically in this way of
design we just look at where the
output becomes one.
And we express those
locations by meters.
This is called digital box.
Basically in the digital buffer,
whatever you receive, you just
simply upload that.
Uh, this is equal to follow two
nuts on top of each other.
Export followed by board becomes
X. Another way to show this is F
is equal to M1 whenever we are
given one binary variable, we
would say that what's the
benefit of this case?
One immediate benefit is that
sometimes you need to create a
gap in time.
But another useful benefit
of the buffer. You'll see it
in one of the.
Assignments, I mean in next two
or three weeks you'll see the
benefit of digital buffers.
But yeah, just for your
information, this is called
buffer, but again, the
pattern is this. I created
truth table to explain the
behavior of this circuit.
Then I represent midterms to
explain the behaviors by the
midterms. I know the binary
variable in the input should
be in the normal form or in
the company for.
So next, let's go to the
next, I mean.
Type of design next.
Units that have two
binary inputs.
So if you are given two binary
inputs. They gonna be either
001010 here anwanwan.
So.
My first question from is this
how many different function?
I can ask a designer to
design for me.
For instance, one designer could
ask is just simply output 0.
Old positions also.
One could be output just one,
whatever the value of the
inputs is. I just wanted to
output one. We already saw
these two special cases.
What else you could say that I
want to design A circuit that
have one here? Sydney.
Put it here. You could say that
I want to design A function one
here 0 here, one here 0 here.
Or you could ask, I want to
design A circuit that outputs 0
here 00 here and one here.
How many different variations
you would ask me to design based
on two input variables?
So let's back to the chat box.
So Nick says that 4 Pence 16 two
to the power of 4 S says that 9.
So this is a lecture assignment
for this week that in general,
if you are given an input
variables, how many output
function you can generate and
you can ask the design. So this
is an interesting question.
But I can say that the correct
answer is 2 to the power of 4.
Or equal to 16 to
16 different function you can
ask to design. So basically
a function that at 0000.
And then 1000 and then 0100. You
see that it's kind of counting
the binary numbers, but in the
vertical sense. So if you can,
all the value variations, you
gonna have two to the power of
4 or 16 variation.
So.
As I said, the immediate or
very simple function that you
can ask a designer to design
for you is this just output
zero. We just do not need any
gate to design this. We just
attach the output to the graph.
But this one.
This one basically says that I
want to output zero when both
are zero. I want to output zero
when X. The first one is 1 and
the second one is 0.
I want to output zero when
the first one is zero and
the second one is 1. The
only case I want to output
one is this both or one.
So we already saw this behavior.
This behavior is for the gate
and so basically to design this
circuit I just asked create A
and gate. So I say that OK, I
design it. This is the Ant gate.
And I give this design to work.
Whoever asked me to design this.
So this is X&Y, but in
another term.
I could ask a.
Somebody may ask me to design F
based on the midterms, so the
midterms if I want to replace
this. Within meters.
What would be the index of
the admitters?
The index of that matters is the
one that makes the output one.
So here is the output one. So
what is the meter? The meter is
the binary number here is 311,
which is the decimal number of.
Free. So instead of just saying
F is X&Y, the guy could say that
F is equal to M3.
So this is another way to
represent the output for this
function an free.
So again, F is equal to M3.
And remember, because we have
two input variables, so 3
means that one here, one
here. So the output is.
And I don't care about other
cases. I only care about the
cases that makes the output one.
So. X&Y. Is
an free.
So here.
How about this function?
Somebody asked me to design this
function, meaning that I just
wanted to output one when the X
is zero and Y is 1.
So I could simply say that, OK,
I just wanted to represent this
function whenever it becomes
one, when it becomes one, when
the first one is 0 or the second
one is 1. So this is the.
Mid term is the binary number,
10 is 1 #2, so it is equal to
mid term 2.
And here is the design. I simply
say that OK, this design for you
is this X followed by the nuts
and then end with Y.
This is your design that you ask
me. You ask me F is equal to M2
and I designed this for you.
Another fan would be this.
When the Apple becomes one when
the input is meeting one.
And here is the design.
Another one would be this, which
is the F is equal to N 0,
meaning that whenever the input
or the binary number for the 0
Apple is 1.
And I designed this for.
The person that asked me
to design that function.
What happens if I have two ones
in the output? So basically for
the two ones. As I said, we
don't care about the zeros, we
don't, we only care about the
ones. We could simply say that
the Earth is. Either this case
or this case.
This or this.
If both are one, the output is
1. If one of them is 1, the
other one is zero. Also the
output is 1.
So. This case.
Is midterm 0. This case
is midterm 1, so I could
simply say that either
this case or this case.
Is N0 or N1?
Another way to show it is this Sigma minterm zero and one Sigma
is just a abbreviation for
adding multiple number. I mean
different numbers. So I could
say that Sigma midterm 01. This
is another way to show that.
And here is the design, so I
could simply say that XY.
Yeah becomes not X not why not
and then? And here is X.
Why not and and then or?
So this is the design for
the required function.
Minterm zero minterm 1.
This is the Minterm 0.
The end and this
is the midterm 1.
And this is the order of them.
Another way to show this is that
usually we bring these nuts to
this source point of the binary
variable. These are the wires.
So basically we say that OK X.
Explore why why board and
now attach the gate input
gates to these wires.
So this is another function.
So now we want to design this
functionality. Somebody asked us
to design this.
So basically he or she wants to
act one if.
The inputs are complements of
each other you see here. If X is
1 Y 04, if X is 01 is 1. In
these cases we want to output
one. However, if both are
equal to each other, I want
to output 0.
So basically I just Simply put
attention to those entries. That
makes it one in the output.
And then either this case or
this case, and this case is
midterm one, and this is not
empty. This is another way
to show that.
And then I design the circuit.
So this is the meter one.
And this is the meter.
2. So meeting one meeting
2 or together.
This special circuit has a nice
properties. A lot of nice
properties that in the next week
assignment you gonna see a lot
of these properties and we call
them exclusive or.
Meaning that meaning that.
Uh, it's kind of or
but exclusive or.
Very similar to the OR gate.
But when we say exclusive, it
means that you don't want them
both one. So in this case we
just output zero. That's the
only difference.
And we show it. But this
assemble exclusive or so.
Basically the order followed by
a circle. My question for me is
this. If I ask you in English or
in any languages in natural
languages that try to choose
between option A or B, what type
of or I mean exclusive or or the
OR gate? So in natural language
such as English.
So if you ask, uh, option A.
Or be.
So what type of war?
They make.
So that's the thing, that's the
thing. Usually by default in
natural languages when we say or
that's exclusive or meaning that
you don't have the option to
choose both of them, you have to
choose one of them. So by
default in natural language,
exclusive or actually we mean.
But in the digital circuit.
The order actually allows you to
pick both options.
So, but exclusive or has a
nice property and that you
will see in the comments.
I explained it there.
Anyways, for us this is
the required functionality
and we could rewrite it as
a midterms and here is the
new design. Just remember
this gate is a new gate.
I'm saying you can go to the
market and buy this gate. So
which is basically this
design inside that gate? This
is the design.
Another function would be this.
So basically here I'm going to
do as you can see the output.
You could compare this outputs
with the previous exclusive or
gate. This is the nut of the
previous function. Whenever the
inputs are equal, I wanna act
with one whenever they are not
equal. I want to output 0.
So basically the check between 2
bits or between two binary
variables. If they are equal, 1
if they are not equal 0.
For us, we just pay attention to
those entries. That makes the
output one. So this is the one
of them. Either this or this.
And the first one is here,
which is mid term 0, the
first, the second one is
here, which is mid term 3.
So meet in 3 zero or three.
This is the Boolean function and
if we want to design this, it
becomes midterm 0.
minterm 3 all of them together.
Exclusive nor as you see, it's a
not of exclusive or so is we
could say that knocks versus NX
or. But the pronunciation is
difficult. They put in here. So
basically they had to put N.
X or.
But The thing is, because of
the pronunciation is not very
good, so they put it here. So
X nor is basically not of X or
very similar to the end NAND
or NOR. Here have exclusive or
and then exclusive nor.
So basically this is
the symbol for that, a
dot followed by circle.
As you can see here, this
is the exclusive or.
Followed by and nuts.
So at home you can practice
whether you can have exclusive
or with three inputs, whether
you have have. Whether you can
have exclusive nor with three
input. So try to build a
exclusive or an exclusive nor
with more inputs.
And see and check whether your
design is correct or not.
And this is another function we
could have, so just Simply put
attention to those entries with
one, either this or this or
this. So basically now we
replace them with the midterms.
Mitten Zero 10110. Three or sick
mommy. 10:01 three.
So you see, now that what are
the benefit of midterms?
Basically the midterms, the
shorter form to represent the
Boolean function and basically
says that if you are, if you
have the binary number for
these numbers in the input,
the output becomes one.
If I have the binary very binary
value for free in the input, F
becomes one. If I have the
binary value for one, it becomes
one. So that's why we represent
Boolean functions based on
what's this? Based on midterm
indices or meters.
And here is the design. So three
midterms or together.
So this is this way of
designing in function is
called sum of products. Why
is that? The reason is that
at the first level.
You do and another name for
Ant is that basically is very
similar to the decimal system
that you do dot. So at the
first level used to and or
product and the second level
you do or or some.
That's why they call it sum of
products SOP. Remember, this
name is Opi, so first you do
some products and then you sum
them by product we mean and.
By son we mean or.
Sorry about my.
And another interesting property
of this design is this. This is
a two level design. At first we
have ants and 2nd we have or so
and. 4. So if I want
to wait for the final result
here I have to simply wait one
time here one time here.
So if I prepare the binary
values here at time, for
instance one. And I assume
that the delay it each level
is 1, so after the second time
I'm gonna have the first
output and then after doing.
Third step I got to see their
results here. So after two step
I got to see the result.
That's very efficient design.
Time for any digital
circuits or any
functionality we usually do
not consider the nut as a
step because it's very easy
to generate the not of any
binary variable, so we don't
consider the not usually an.
We just consider the product
or ants and then.
Uh, we ran out of time, so.
Next week we gonna
practice on a.
Designing a circuit that the
truth table is not given so so
far the truth table is given.
Basically given the truth table,
for instance here.
We are given the truth table. We
just rewrite it as the midterms
and then we design the circuit.
As the summer fathers.
But what happens if the first
table is not given? Instead we
are given this sentences.
Basically, the question says
that we have free imports.
We want to output to.
Some value.
To show that then given input is
even or odd. So basically the
question is that says that I
want to output one whenever
whenever we see a.
Even number in the input.
Even number is, for
instance if I want.
Once the number is 0123
in the input.
But remember we are in a binary
system, so you have to represent
it as binary number. So for this
zero I want to add put one if
you consider zero as an even
number for the one one is odd. I
want to act with 02 is even. I
want to output 1. Three is odd.
I want to output 0.
So this is the functionality and
we want to design such a thing.
So hopefully next week we're
gonna continue on this.
Any questions so far?
I'm going to be in the office
hour, uh, if you have
question, I'm ready there, but
I mean until then I'm here. If
you have any questions.
So today's lecture is very
important because of the
designing with minterms. But next week we're going to
practice on. Some.
More difficult designs.
You're welcome ehsan Thank you afsao thank you. tetiana
And have a great day. I hope you
have a great rest of the day.
And I just wanted to
stop the recording.